[TABLE]
Framework
Scottsdale's Community Sustainability Plan The framework supports the protection of the
addresses the three dimensions of sustainability, Sonoran Desert ecosystem in rural and urban
identifying five thematic Pathways based on a areas. It also directs actions toward supporting
and attracting residents and visitors, providing modified version of the framework developed by
the International Council for Local Environmental economic benefits, and ensuring a high quality of
life. Initiatives (ICLEl).
Fifteen Topics, partly drawn from the General
Plan elements, reflect traditional sustainability
topics as well areas where the city is adding
sustainability connections to existing work. The
strategies and actions for each topic look beyond SUSTAINABLE
what the city is doing and provide policy direction
where efforts are newer or are now more urgent.
The structure facilitates collaboration and.
SCOTTSDALE reinforces the connections between the topics.
There are also specific strategies and actions
related to implementation of the plan..
Sustainability Pathways & Topics
Pathway One: Low Emissions and Climate Action Reduces greenhouse gas and other environmentally
harmful air emissions.
: Air Quality. Climate Planning . Energy. Mobility
Pathway Two: Nature-Based Protects and enhances our city and natural environment by conserving
resources and balancing land use and open space
: Water Resources. Open Space & Land Management
Pathway Three: Equitable Community Builds just, livable, and thriving communities reflecting the.
character of Scottsdale.
: Community Services. Character & Arts. Economic Vitality
: Education & Engagement
Pathway Four: Resiliency Anticipates and responds to shocks and stressors, preparing for new risks and
impacts
: Extreme Heat & Hazard Preparedness . Built Environment & Housing
: Smart City
Pathway Five: Circular Systems Supports models of production and consumption that reduce, recycle,
repair, and repurpose products and materials
. Waste as a Resource. Food Systems
2
[/TABLE]
